# Mus
Mus cards game

Mus is a very typical card game. Some people claim numerous university students spends longer in the cafeteria playing this game, than actually attending to lessons. That being true or false, the game has a high component of strategy.

This game is played with the Spanish cards deck (not the French one that the British use to play American Poker, I always liked the combination though). If you don't have one, get it, it's easy nowadays with Internet (and actually many of the decks are produced in my home city, Vitoria-Gasteiz, and the first card of the deck, the ace of "golds" (oros) does usually have the name of my city on it ("Vitoria", only in Spanish, omitting the Basque language name). If you still insist on playing with a French deck (the one with clubs, spades, hearts and diamonds), please remove jokers, and cards with numbers 8, 9 and 10, those do not exist in our deck. Jacks, Queens and Kings have an equivalent ("Sota", "Caballo" and "Rey", so the Queen is changed by a Knight but the result is the same).

In this game, 4 actual games are played with the very same 4 cards that each player has. It is always played by 4 players, in pairs, each of the component of the pair (team) sitting opposite to each other. Alternatively, they can also be sitting "two facing two", and then the components of the same pair would sit in one opposite corner. Either composition, does not change the sequence of the game, counterclockwise ("from left to right").

This is also a betting game like Poker, but the bets are limitted to what is available on the table: in case you win something, you take it from the table. In order to count the points more efficently, one of the players chips (which are usually chick-peas or something of similar size) will have value of 1, while the other one's will have a value of 5. Whose chips, it doesn't matter, but in order to avoid confussion, usually only one player will count and take the chips, his own chips will have value of 1 and his partner's will have value of 5. It's completely OK that the other couple ask them at some point of time who has 1s and who 5s: Mus is a gentlemen game, you can lie with word but not with actions or anything that has consequences (such as cheating or counting wrongly on purpose).

After the 4 cards are given to each player, they will need to agree whether they're able to discard cards or not. The player giving the cards changes each round (always counterclockwise), and he will leave the deck of remaining cards to his right, this way everybody knows who's the first one to speak with the deck position. If one player refuses, there will be no discards and game will start. In order to express this, players will say in order "mus" or "no hay mus" (there's no mus). It's funny because actually when there's no "mus" it's when the "mus" starts. If all 4 players agree to "mus", they will discard. Please notice they do need to discard at least one card, if they wanted to keep all 4, that's not allowed. The discarded cards remain in the middle, over the chips (chick peas), untill the game starts. If there are so many discards that the 40 cards of the deck are not enough, and only then, discarded cards are reused (after collecting and shufflig them). Once a player says "no mus", the gam starts: player responsible for shuffling and handing out cards collect all discarded cards (if any) and leaves the deck on his right as usual, that deck won't be used any more in that game but will still serve to remind everyone the order of that round

The four games of mus are played then in order: "Grande" (Big one), "Pequeña" (Small one), "Pares" (Pairs) and "Juego" (Game). Everybody can play the first two games, while the other two games can only be played by players meeting conditions. If nobody meets them for pairs, that game is not played, but if nobody meets them for the last game, "Juego", it will be replaced by an additional 5th game called "Punto".

The mechanics of each of the games will be explained in an upcoming update.
